Interview Questions - Behavioral



1. Explain a scenario when you put your customer first
2. How do you deal with ambiguity? Do you wait until things are clear? 
3. Explain a scenario when you disagreed with your team members? Walk me through what happened?
4.Tell me about a time you made decisions without consulting your manager. 
Tell me about a time you had to overcome pushback from your Manager
5.Tell me about a project where I used metrics to capture business insights.
6.How would you handle a case where the report is running slowly. - Query Optimization (Filter first, computing all metrics in one single query, the better way is to compute one metric save it in a table, then compute anther. The ideal way is to compute similar metrics together which are coming from a common source ), Database schema optimization for querying, environment issue, can do looping using CTE or cross joins, program becomes slow with looping. Another way is to Do a part of job in python or write a script with a dynamic query (called SQL engine - it is more efficient)
7.How did you respond to negative feedback?
8.Tell me about a time that you performed work outside of your role.
9.When you commit to a deadline in Project and you cannot finish, how do you communicate to customers? LP
Follow-up questions
	1) What was the reason that attributed to miss the deadline?
	2) What is the solution or fix that it won’t happen again?
10.Any example of what you did even before your customers asked for it? LP
11. Give me an example when you took a decision without consulting your manager or Approval? 
Follow-up questions
	1) How do you justify that you have to skip Manger approval? 
	2) What is the risk involved and what could be the impact if you had to wait till Manger Approval?
	3) Were customers happy with your decision? 
12. Given a product sale information on Amazon shopping website, what would be your approach to decide which product to price cut to improve the sales?
	1)How do you measure your success, like which product price cuts did better on quantity of sales, profit? 
13. How do you design your dashboards to show/measure your success? 
14. Give me an example when you were the outlier when the whole team was taking one decision?
15. Give me an example when you suggested a solution to customer and had a great success?
16. What is the proud moment of your career when you not only met the goal but exceeded?
17. Give me an example when you worked on something which is NOT your regular part of job or went beyond your responsibility and had a great success?
Several follow up of question : like what exactly you did and how it impacted the customers, How you tested your work and measure your success?
